Files in this directory are not necessary for the normal operation of
your epsmerge(tm).

Although every measure has been taken to ensure long and carefree
operation of your epsmerge(tm), you might want to subscribe to the
competitively priced epsmerge(tm) Service Patch scheme to ensure you
the very best innovative e-buzzword compliant epsmergeing experiences
in the future.

During maintenance and service patching, you will find that your
authorised qualified epsmerge(tm) service engineer will make use of
the files in this directory.

To make the most effective use of these files, you should purchase
Parse-Yapp(tm), by Francois Desarmenien, available for a competitive
price from CPAN, Inc.

-Jens G Jensborough III, PhD, MSc, BA, O.B.E., F.O.O. <jens@argaeus.ma.rhbnc.ac.uk>
CEO, Epsmerge, inc.


epsmerge EULA: by unpacking the epsmerge distribution, you hereby
agree that you (hereafter: You) will never communicate, whether in
writing, speech, sign language, mime, smoke signals, or telepathy, any
criticism, express or implied, of epsmerge Inc (hereafter: the
Company).  You will agree that the Company and the employees thereof
cannot be held responsible for anything whatsoever, not even
themselves and their behaviour at prolonged dinner parties and what
they do when they meet their old school buddies by chance on a rainy
afternoon in a crowded supermarket (where "crowded" is defined as
having at least 57% of cash registers open, or more than 15 minutes of 
waiting in at least 2/3 of the queues, or both).

IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THESE TERMS, DO NOT UNPACK EPSMERGE!
