************************************************************************

What is epsmerge?

epsmerge is a program that will (hopefully :-) merge encapsulated
postscript (EPS) files into one or more encapsulated postscript files
(or non-encapsulated postscript).  Generating EPS is useful for later
inclusion in a TeX document (say), and generating (non-encapsulated)
postscript is useful for sending pages directly to a printer.

************************************************************************

Requirements:

epsmerge should run on any Perl from version 5.0 and up, without any
downloads from CPAN.  Developed and tested on UNIX, but brave people
have reported success on Microsoft Windows NT.

************************************************************************

Where to get it:

As I tend to move around a bit these days, the canonical and thoroughly
recommended way of finding the latest release of epsmerge is through
freshmeat (http://freshmeat.net/).  Find the appindex section and look
in section Console/Text Utilities (it is in this section mainly because
it already contained some postscript utilities when I first submitted to
freshmeat).  I don't always announce when there is a minor patch or
upgrade, though, but try my best to keep the links working anyway.

************************************************************************

Documentation:

You will find the documentation in the ./docs directory as a text file,
a man page, and a HTML page.  If this is not enough, then you'll find
the original POD in the ./devel directory.

************************************************************************

Copyright(s):

epsmerge is Copyright (C) 1999-2000 Jens G Jensen
<jens@argaeus.ma.rhbnc.ac.uk>.  This program is distributed under the
GNU General Public License.  In particular, there is NO WARRANTY of any
kind whatsoever.  Please refer to the file COPYING for details.

************************************************************************

Trademarks:

Postscript is a trademark of Adobe Systems, Inc.

Windows NT is probably a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

UNIX is a trademark of The Open Group. Or maybe X/Open.  Actually, I
don't really care^Wknow who owns it, but it belongs to someone, OK?  If you
(1) own the trademark and (2) you think the above attribution is wrong
and (3) you really, really cannot sleep till you know I've fixed it,
by all means send me a note.

************************************************************************

Installation:

Since you are reading this, you have probably successfully untarred
epsmerge to some directory.  All you need now is an epsmerge command
somewhere in your path.  Typically, if you install for the whole system
you would put the command in /usr/local/bin; if you just install it for
yourself, you'd probably put it in ~/bin and add this directory to your
path.

Say you unpacked epsmerge in /usr/local (meaning that all the files now
reside in /usr/local/epsmerge-xxx, where xxx is a version number), and
you want to have the command run from /usr/local/bin.  If you chose
different directories, it's the same procedure, mutatis mutandis.

In the rest of this section,
	/usr/local/epsmerge-xxx
stands for the directory that contains all the epsmerge files, and xxx
really is the version number;
	/usr/local/bin
stands for any directory in your path;

****

Method 0:

Hold your breath until I write a canonical installation script (not
recommended).

****

Method 1:

Create a file called `epsmerge' (without the quotes) in /usr/local/bin
with the following content:

perl -w -I/usr/local/epsmerge-xxx/lib /usr/local/epsmerge-xxx/epsmerge "$@"

(in one line; type the proper version number instead of xxx), and make
the file that you just created executable (`chmod 755 epsmerge').


****

Method 2:

cd /usr/local/bin
ln -s ../epsmerge-xxx/epsmerge epsmerge

That's it.  The `../epsmerge-xxx/epsmerge' is the _relative path_ to the
epsmerge script; yours may look different.  (You could also use absolute
paths instead.)  You'll need to test it, though: if you get the error
message

bash: epsmerge: No such file or directory

or something similar, it's probably because

  1. /usr/local/bin is not in your path.  Type echo $PATH to see if it's
     there.  If not, type (Korn type shells)

     PATH=/usr/local/bin:$PATH

     or (C type shells)

     setenv PATH /usr/local/bin:$PATH

_or_

  2. your perl is not in /usr/bin/ where epsmerge expects to find it.
     Type `whereis perl'.  It might say something like
     perl: /usr/local/bin/perl5.005 /usr/local/bin/perl
     In that case, change the first line of
     /usr/local/epsmerge-xxx/epsmerge to the correct path (namely,
     `#!/usr/local/bin/perl -w')
     (The `-w' is just there to make epsmerge complain if things
     look wrong.)

If you get an error

bash: epsmerge: Permission denied

it's because /usr/local/epsmerge-xxx/epsmerge doesn't have correct
execute (or read) permissions; do

chmod 755 /usr/local/epsmerge-xxx/epsmerge


************************************************************************

Credits:

I would like to thank the following people for valuable comments and/or
patient testing and/or whatever regarding epsmerge and/or epssplit:

Tobias Buchal, Franz Domes, Craig Markwardt, Stefan Schreyjak

And everybody else who has commented and suggested changes.

Special thanks to Matthijs van Leeuwen and Paul Craven for particularly
patient testing.

Last but not least, thanks to freshmeat; to Wall et al. for Perl; and to
everybody that downloads and uses epsmerge or epssplit.

************************************************************************

How to reach me:

Comments, bug-reports, patches, remarks, etc, are very welcome.  I can
be reached at <jens@argaeus.ma.rhbnc.ac.uk> or (from 2001)
<jens@argaeus.ma.rhul.ac.uk>

************************************************************************
